REST: anon. user/login needed (#2505)
ibexa/documentation-developer: docs/api/rest_api/rest_api_authentication.md

- [Cross-origin requests](rest_responses.md#cross-origin)
- [`access_control`]([[= symfony_doc =]]/security/access_control.html)

!!! caution "SiteAccess login"

>     The anonymous user is used to access the ressource even if authentification with the REST server has been established.

Author: ```suggestion
    The anonymous user is used to perform the request even if authentification with the REST server has been established to access the ressource.
```

>     So, Anonymous user must have `user/login` policy on the SiteAccess matched by the REST domain or passed through [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).

Author: ```suggestion
    Therefore, Anonymous users must have `user/login` permission on the SiteAccess that matches the REST domain or is passed through the [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).
```

>     The anonymous user is used to perform the authentification requests.
>     Therefore, "Anonymous" role must have `user/login` permission on the SiteAccess that matches the REST domain or is passed through the [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The anonymous user is used to perform authentification requests.
    Therefore, the "Anonymous" role must have `user/login` permission on the SiteAccess that matches the REST domain or is passed through the [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).
```

>     The anonymous user is used to perform authentification requests.
>     Therefore, the "Anonymous" role must have `user/login` permission on the SiteAccess that matches the REST domain or is passed through the [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).

Author: ```suggestion
    The anonymous user is used to perform authentification requests.
    Therefore, the "Anonymous" role must have `user/login` permission on the SiteAccess that matches the REST domain or is passed through the [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).
    For example, to not have this permission on the related SiteAccess breaks Ibexa Connect app.
```

Author: @dabrt @lionelakpagni Or even go farther with cross-examples:
```suggestion
    The anonymous user is used to perform authentification requests.
    Therefore, the "Anonymous" role must have `user/login` permission on the SiteAccess that matches the REST domain or is passed through the [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).
    For example, to not have this permission on the related SiteAccess breaks Ibexa Connect app.
    Regarding [those examples](https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/connect/en/latest/general/connecting_to_ibexa_connect/), "Anonymous" role must have user/login permission on the SiteAccess matched by `my-site.co`, or the `campaign` SiteAccess.
```

Reviewer 2: I feel like this is already enough (it will be mentioned in the Connect doc as well) - but if you feel like expanding this then feel free 😉

> 

Author: https://github.com/ibexa/documentation-developer/pull/2505#discussion_r1784593510

Author: A bit hard to test. It doesn't harm too much to have this remark for every methods even if some method may not need it.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!! caution "SiteAccess login"

    Even if you authenticate with the REST server, an anonymous user is used to access the resources.
    Therefore, anonymous users must have `user/login` permission on the SiteAccess that matches the REST domain or is passed through the [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).

```

Author: @dabrt  I changed this a bit since your review.

I might need a dev review for the first sentence. I'm not sure about why exactly this is needed.

>     The anonymous user is used to perform the request even if authentification with the REST server has been established to access the ressource.
>     Anonymous user must have `user/login` policy on the SiteAccess matched by the REST domain or passed through [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).

Author: ```suggestion
    The Anonymous user is used to perform the authentification requests.
    So, Anonymous user must have `user/login` policy on the SiteAccess matched by the REST domain or passed through [`X-Siteaccess` header](rest_requests.md#siteaccess).
```
